(whooshing)
(thumping)
I'll beat 'em at their own game.
Just hold on.
Leave this one to me,
the two of you go on ahead.
[Boruto] What, why?
It'll be easier if we
fight them together!
You don't get it, do you?
Those guys are puppets and
I'm a puppet specialist,
so there's no way
I'll lose, right?
And besides, the
strategy for right now
should be to put the
mission first and foremost.
(tense music)
Yes, that's absolutely right.
We'll head straight
for the Leaf Village.
Why?
You don't have to fight
alone, Mr. Kankuro!
(whooshing)
(poofing)
This isn't the time for you
guys to be hanging out here.
The mission we were given
is to keep Master Shukaku
out of harm's way.
Yeah, but...
Go, Boruto.
Besides, I'm getting tired
of refereeing fights
between you two brats.
(humming)
All right, fine.
But you'd better catch up
to us later, Mr. Kankuro.
Of course I will.
I really can't
afford to lose now.
(teeth chattering)
(humming)
(footsteps approaching)
[Temari] It's taking them too
long to come back, isn't it?
Yeah.
But still, it's kind
of hard to believe
that something bad would happen
to both uncle Gaara
and Mr. Sasuke.
You're still so naive, Shikadai.
Part of being a shinobi
means that you always have to
think about the unthinkable,
or so your dad would say.
I'm getting a bad
feeling about this.
(tense music)
(footsteps shuffling)
Is Mr. Kankuro really
gonna be okay by himself?
He should be.
My uncle's puppet jutsu
gets stronger and better
against more enemies.
So basically his specialty
is being outnumbered?
That's right.
We'd only get in the
way if we were there.
Huh.
Well, he did seem
really confident
about fighting
against those puppets.
Come on, let's hurry up.
Our duty first and
foremost right now
is to protect master Shukaku.
Even if we die trying.
(humphing)
(tense music)
(Opening Theme Music)
(singing in Japanese)
(tense music)
Heh.
(whooshing)
(teeth chattering)
(crunching)
(tense music)
Four to one.
All right, then.
I've still got some
tricks up my sleeve.
(poofing)
I mean after all, a puppet user
can't let puppets make
a fool of him, right?
(tense music)
(whooshing)
Heh.
Black ant.
(zipping)
(whooshing)
(doors shutting)
Secret black move, iron maiden.
(teeth chattering)
(metal clanking)
That's really all you got, huh?
(whooshing)
It's fast!
(skidding)
(grunting)
This one's not like the others.
(swords swishing)
Okay, so it's not going to
be as easy as I thought, huh?
But, I still won't let you
get your hands on Shukaku.
I'm gonna stop you
no matter what,
because that's my job now.
(footsteps shuffling)
Huh?
What's wrong?
(cape whooshing)
(thudding)
Enemies?
Well, so I was wrong.
(skittering)
No way, seriously,
it was only a lizard?
Well, I guess even calm
and cool elites like you
can make mistakes sometimes.
Hey listen,
don't you think you're
getting a little too wound up?
(footsteps shuffling)
If you keep being so tense,
you're never gonna
make it to the leaf.
I'm not like you, unable to
consider the consequences.
I've calculated my
chakra allotment.
Calculated, huh?
Humans aren't machines,
you know that, right?
And that's why, to
ensure a smooth mission,
we have to be calm and
rational just like machines.
Come on.
Do you always act like this?
Ha.
(footsteps shuffling)
(thudding)
(popping)
Ah man, seriously.
Talk about annoying.
You know what I'm saying?
(gasping)
Hip hip ha hoop hawoop!
Up we go!
(thudding)
Pon pon ka pon!
Master Shukaku.
[Shukaku] Oh, give me a break.
I just need a little
change of pace.
I mean, anyone
would get depressed
inside all that hot and
stifling iron sand of yours.
You can't just do
what you please.
Come on, we're in
a hurry, aren't we?
(grunting)
(sighing)
(footsteps shuffling)
Does he always go
around acting this way?
Eh, who knows?
But he reminds me
of the old Gaara.
Huh?
Really, Mr. Gaara was like that?
Yeah, the old Gaara
wouldn't let anyone get
close to him at all.
But then someone came
along and changed him.
Who was it?
Naruto.
It was my dad?
[Shukaku] Naruto taught Gaara
that he should live for
something other than hatred.
He completely changed
Gaara's isolated way of life.
[Boruto] Changed
his way of life?
Naruto possesses the ability
to pull others close to him.
Oh yeah?
My dad does, huh?
Although I have to say,
I don't think Shinki's gonna
turn out like Mr. Gaara.
Well, he certainly
can be stubborn too.
Especially now.
He's desperately
trying to fulfill
the duty entrusted to him.
Entrusted to...
Do you mean by Mr. Gaara?
No, not quite.
Not just by Gaara.
Come on, don't just stand
there, you're wasting time.
Yeah, yeah.
(footsteps shuffling)
Entrusted duty, huh?
(clanking)
(gasping)
Someone's coming.
But who?
Is it the enemy?
If Lord Kazekage gets
attacked now, then...
[Girl] No, it's okay.
(whooshing)
Gaara.
(tense music)
Yes, I understand.
So Gaara was attacked.
And I can't believe
what happened to Sasuke.
The Otsutsuki that
uses the fishing rod.
Lord Kazekage managed
to seal him away.
But he said that soon,
the seal is probably
going to break.
Hm.
I say we should rendezvous
with Boruto and the others.
Okay, then leave Lord
Kazekage with us.
We'll definitely get him
back to the village.
Thanks, and good luck.
I know you're good
from the chunin exams.
Don't mess up.
Protect them.
Oh, uh, thank you?
Let's get going.
Even though Kankuro
is with them,
I'm sure he didn't bring
all of his puppets with him.
But if we're talking
about Uncle Kankuro,
he'll manage somehow, won't he?
That's just why I want to hurry.
He'll always find a way
because he's the elder
brother of the Kazekage.
No matter what he
has to resort to.
Just one last puppet,
but where'd he go?
(whooshing)
(gasping)
(grunting)
(thudding)
He was under the sand.
(grunting)
Guess black ant isn't going
to be able to catch you now.
You think you're gonna get
to torture me to death?
Well guess what?
(whooshing)
You aren't the
only puppet around
that can dive beneath the sand!
(crashing)
(tense music)
(grunting)
Secret black move, salamander.
(clanking)
(creaking)
(inhaling)
(chomping)
I lured you in exactly
where I wanted you.
Is that all of them?
(rumbling)
(thudding)
They're still...
They're so stubborn.
This might not be enough to
stop them from functioning.
(crashing)
(grunting)
To win this, it's time
for my secret weapon.
(explosions booming)
Heh.
(explosion booming)
(gasping)
No way.
What was that?
(tense music)
Did that come from the place
where we left Mr. Kankuro?
That was a paper bomb explosion.
Do you think he's all right?
(sighing)
Come on, let's hurry.
What was that?
My uncle will finish this,
even if he has to take
his foes down with him.
Down with him?
Hey, listen!
Did you know that he'd
do this all along?
That's right.
If he wins, great.
And if he doesn't,
then he's just going to
take them down with him.
In this situation,
any sand shinobi would
do the same thing.
What'd you say?
You need to get your
mission priority straight.
And don't make me
keep reminding you
of what our duty truly is now.
Aw, man!
We're to protect Master Shukaku
until we get to
the Leaf Village.
Got that?
(grunting)
But listen, even if that's
true, I won't accept it.
Hey, what are you doing?
Isn't it obvious?
I'm gonna go back to
rescue Mr. Kankuro.
Are you serious, right now?
You're damn right.
He could still be
alive and fighting.
So I can't just abandon him.
Still, we can't.
There's no time to go back.
Our duty is--
Shut up!
I'm telling you
we're not machines.
We can't be swayed by feelings.
We must make calm,
rational choices.
Face it.
You're wrong on this.
I don't even care if I'm wrong.
I just don't want to
be the kind of trash
who'd abandon a friend.
What was that?
So I'm going.
I'm helping Mr. Kankuro.
(tense music)
Are you just gonna
go on alone then?
Of course.
My uncle fulfilled
the duty he was given.
And if Boruto can't
understand that much,
then he's failed as
a shinobi already.
(footsteps shuffling)
(panting)
Damn it.
(air whooshing)
Mr. Kankuro!
(gasping)
Come on, please say something!
[Temari] Boruto!
Aunt Temari?
Shikadai?
Why are you here?
That's just what I'd
like to ask you, Boruto.
I had heard that you and Shinki
were on your way
to bring Shukaku
to the Hidden Leaf Village.
Yeah, but then...
We've been looking,
but we can't find
Kankuro either.
He might've simply
blown himself up.
No way.
(sighing)
[Shikadai] Oh,
hey, are you okay?
Shikadai, check
the perimeter again
and see if you
can find anything.
(sighing)
I got it.
All right, Boruto.
Why exactly have
you come back here?
I was worried for Mr. Kankuro.
And I appreciate that.
But then what about Shinki?
All he's concerned
about is the mission.
Do you really think that Shinki
doesn't care about
Kankuro at all?
(gasping)
Let me guess.
You argued with him
and then stormed off.
This is just as
difficult for him.
(somber music)
He may not show it,
but he loves and
respects Kankuro a lot.
He Shinki's uncle,
one of his masters,
and most importantly,
the trusted confidant
and supporter of Gaara,
whom he reveres.
Kankuro is someone
he tries to emulate.
(whimpering)
That's the reason why
he hardened his heart
the way that he did
and put his duty first.
It was entrusted to him.
Not only by Gaara,
but Kankuro too.
His duty?
[Temari] Abandoning the
mission and coming back here?
Did you seriously think
that was what Kankuro
wanted you to do,
after he gave everything to
buy you the time to get away?
But that's...
(whimpering)
Yeah, you're right.
Maybe I didn't understand.
What Mr. Kankuro's resolve
meant and Shinki's either.
But still, I can't accept
parting with a friend like that,
in that way, is simply
saying it couldn't be helped.
Even if that's what
Mr. Kankuro wanted.
I'm not Shinki.
I can't just accept it.
So it seems.
But regardless, this isn't
about Shinki being right,
and you being wrong.
(somber music)
Boruto.
You rushed back here
for Kankuro's sake,
and as his sister, that
makes me feel very happy.
Aunt Temari...
For a friend or for a mission.
It's a difficult decision
that shinobi have to
make all the time.
Boruto.
Tell me, what do you think
your duty is right now?
To protect Shukaku with
everything I've got,
for Mr. Kankuro's sake.
[Shikadai] Hey!
Over here!
(tense music)
What are they?
It almost appears as if they
were shielding something.
And look at this.
No way!
(grunting)
(mysterious music)
Throughout this whole area,
quicksand flows underground.
And that means if
those enemy puppets
can dive underground like
Kankuro's salamander, then...
I get it.
It's possible that they
could travel really far.
Shukaku and Shinki
are in trouble.
Shinki.
Hang on, I'll be there soon.
(mysterious music)
(creaking)
Shinki, you think
we have a chance?
I doubt that they're weak
enough to allow us to get away.
Besides, I have to
avenge my uncle.
Wait for us, Shinki.
(mysterious music)
[Girl] We'll reach the
village soon, Lord Kazekage.
(grunting)
Please, hang in there!
Oh no.
The seal on Urashiki's...
(rumbling)
(explosion booming)
I admit, you gave me a
harder time than I expected.
But this game... is mine.
(Closing Theme Music)
(singing in Japanese)
(tense music)
[Urashiki] Well, well.
Found you.
I'm going to enjoy our
play time together.
I'll torment you to
my heart's content.
[Shinki] I have to
avenge my uncle.
[Boruto] Next time on Boruto,
Naruto Next Generations.
Urashiki returns.
Shinki, I'll be there soon.
Don't let him get you!
(Closing Theme Music)